Added page docs/guidelines/developerTip.PersistingDataAcrossSessions (#104)
madewithkoji/docs: src/asciidoc/docs/guidelines/persistSessionData.adoc

= Persisting data across sessions
:page-slug: persist-session-data
:page-description: How to persist data that doesn't expire with the session.

> Data can be stored temporarily using window.sessionStorage.

Reviewer: This paragraph still has a lot of passive voice that we can remove. Consider something like (might need some word-smithing and an accuracy check):

Some templates need to store data about the user's session, such as a user's name or game score.
To store data temporarily, you can use `window.sessionStorage`.
However, data stored in this way expires when the session ends.
If you need to persist data across sessions, you can use `window.localStorage`.

Author: Done

However, data stored in this way will expire when the session ends.
If data needs to be persisted across sessions, `window.localStorage` may be used.
Data stored in this way has no expiration date.
It will be available until the browser's cache is cleared.

For example, here is link to a Koji that uses local storage to store the user's name: https://withkoji.com/~Svarog1389/chatbox[Chatbox]

When you first run the Koji, your user name is set to Anonymous.
You can change it by clicking on the cog icon in the top left corner.
The new name will be saved to local storage.
The relevant code is in the `Chatbox.js` file of the template: https://withkoji.com/code/Svarog1389/chatbox#frontend%2Fcommon%2FComponents%2FChatbox.js[Chatbox.js]

> == Using local storage

Reviewer: Add a blank line after a section heading.

Author: Done

There are two ways to use `window.localStorage`.

Use property names directly:
[source,javascript]
----
localStorage.username = 'johnsmith001';
console.log(localStorage.username); // prints johnsmith001 to the console
delete localStorage.username;
console.log(localStorage.username); // prints undefined to the console
----

Alternatively, `localStorage` provides the methods `setItem` and `removeItem`, which you can use as follows:
[source,javascript]
----
localStorage.setItem('username', 'johnsmith001');
console.log(localStorage.getItem('username')); // prints johnsmith001 to the console
localStorage.removeItem('username');
console.log(localStorage.getItem('username')); // prints undefined to the console
----

> == Developer tips

Reviewer: Add a blank line after a section heading.

Author: Done

Check that `windows.localStorage` is accessible before using it.
If the user has selected *Block third-party cookies and site data* in the content settings of the browser, local storage will be inaccessible.
Local storage may also be inaccessible in incognito mode (private browsing).
To avoid an error in these situations, always check that local storage is available before using it.

> An easy way to do this is to use something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check whether local storage is accessible, you can use a function like this example.
```
Making the phrasing a little more formal and clarifying what "this" is.

Author: Done

[source,javascript]
----
function isLocalStorageAvailable() {
    const test = 'test';
    try {
        localStorage.setItem(test, test);
        localStorage.removeItem(test);
        return true;
    } catch (e) {
        return false;
    }
}
----

> If local storage is inaccessible, you can decide to persist the data for only the duration of the session or you can save it to the database (see <<koji-database#, Koji Database>>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If local storage is inaccessible, you can decide to persist the data for only the duration of the session or you can save it to a database, such as the built-in <<koji-database#, Koji database>>.
```
Technically, they could use another service, but it might be easier to use the one we provide.

Author: Done

= Persisting data across sessions

:page-slug: persist-session-data
:page-description: How to persist data that doesn't expire with the session.

Some templates need to store data about the user's session, such as a user's name or game score.

> You can store data temporarily using `window.sessionStorage`.

Reviewer: "by using" or "with" (grammar)

However, data stored in this way expires when the session ends.

> If you need to persist data across sessions, `window.localStorage` can be used.

Reviewer: Still passive. You could just say "... use `window.localStorage`."

Author: Done

Data stored in this way has no expiration date.
It will be available until the browser's cache is cleared.

For example, here is a link to a Koji that uses local storage to store the user's name: https://withkoji.com/~Svarog1389/chatbox[Chatbox]

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra blank line in source (don't use two blank lines in a row).

Author: Done

== Using local storage

There are two ways to use `window.localStorage`.

Use property names directly:
[source,javascript]
----
localStorage.username = 'johnsmith001';
console.log(localStorage.username); // prints johnsmith001 to the console
delete localStorage.username;
console.log(localStorage.username); // prints undefined to the console
----

Alternatively, `localStorage` provides the methods `setItem` and `removeItem`, which you can use as follows:
[source,javascript]
----
localStorage.setItem('username', 'johnsmith001');
console.log(localStorage.getItem('username')); // prints johnsmith001 to the console
localStorage.removeItem('username');
console.log(localStorage.getItem('username')); // prints undefined to the console
----

== Developer tips

Check that `windows.localStorage` is accessible before using it.
If the user has selected *Block third-party cookies and site data* in the content settings of the browser, local storage will be inaccessible.
Local storage may also be inaccessible in incognito mode (private browsing).
To avoid an error in these situations, always check that local storage is available before using it.

> To check whether local storage is accessible, you can use a function like this example.

Reviewer: Add a blank line between the paragraph and the code block in the source
